
From: Mark Veltzer

High level description:

Work was done in the last one and a half weeks to check the suitability of GraalVM
for Amdocs needs and it performance. The results so far are promising: applications
similar to Amdocs were tests with up to 120 jars so far with similar stacks (including
various Spring Book stacks).

The improvements between running a microservice with Java and with with GraalVM could
be separated into 3 different asepcts:
- load time of the app
- run time
- memory
Both of these show improvements although load time shows higher improvement because
of the my testing methodology.

Load time

Load time has improved by 637% on average (!). This is after pre-compilation ofcourse.
It is not certain that we can maintain this number for a real amdocs heavy microservice
but even if we can't the improvement should be significant as well.

Run time

Run has improved by 32%. This number is not as solid as the previous one since the tests
we really simple and did not make the microservice work as hard as it can (this was not
a heavy load test but rather a simple single web service call test). So this number can be
either higher or lower for a real web service.

Memory

Memory has improved by 43%. However, this number should be trusted as this was a testing app
and the memory improvement really depends on how an application uses memory and the testing
app is not a good representative of a real application. However, we do expect an improvment
for a real application but the size of the improvment is unknown until we test with a real
amdocs microservice.

All of results were obtained and averaged for serveral application stacks: small (no spring
just JEE standard web app). Medium (20-40 jar medium web app with spring), large (100-140 jar
full application stack with spring boot and other technologies).

What was not tested

- Debugging and monitoring was not tested for now. This means that monitoring and debugging
a GraalVM based web service is different from a regular Java App. Tools for doing such
debugging and monitoring do exist but have not yet been tested.

Issues

Stability of GraalVM on windows is stil an issue. All tests were done on Linux and I don't know
about the Amdocs ecosystem enough to know how much support for windows is an issue.
